## Important Notes
The data files present in this GitHub Repository have gone under cleaning process using Adobe Express and Textract OCR tools that were provided to the initial team by Muckrock. (Textract OCR is a premium OCR tool present on the Muckrock's Document Cloud)

The team was provided data in form of PDFs and hence these PDFs required conversion into .xlsx format. Once these were converted into .xlsx files, they were then cleaned and formatted into CSVs for further processing and analysis. This particular cleaning process is mentioned in the main Readme.md file:- 

(Path to main readme.md)

## Provided Data

The data that was provided initially was in format of PDF. Basically, screenshots of excel files were gathered and grouped in PDF files. The list of provided files is provided below:-

- District Revenues FY20-FY24.pdf
- Financial Statements.pdf
- FY2020 Asset Reports.pdf
- FY2021 Asset Reports.pdf
- FY2022 Asset Reports.pdf
- FY2023 Asset Reports.pdf
- FY2024 Asset Reports.pdf
- Marine Revenue FY20-FY24.pdf
- Navy Revenue Report FY20-FY24-1.pdf
- Navy Revenue Report FY20-FY24-2.pdf
- Revenue Comparison.pdf
- Presentations.pdf

A few of them have similar patterns so we will learn patterns of these below.

### District Revenue
It is found that all the military bases have some sub-divisions where the the revenue is generated from the slot machines. This file does contain messy data and is divided into 3 different formats, out of which 2nd and 3rd format have been cleaned and updated. Merging it with Asset Reports and Financial Statements could help in predicting and identifying machine installation and revenue generation trends.

### Financial Statements
This is the largest file among all. Financial Statements, contains tables having monthly records for all the regions and bases, tracking the cash flow history from the year 2020 to year 2024. Moreover, there are 4 major table formats present in Financial Statements. Let's understand them:-

#### Format-1 (Overall Summary of Cash Flow in Assets, Liabilities and Equity)
This format gives us an overview on how has the cash flown in the Assets(Slot Machines) and in the Liabilities(Maintenance and Salaries of People). This table repeats in the beginning of every data entry cycle, every month. Providing enough scope for a brief analysis that how much cash flow has happened per region and totally by the US Government.

#### Format-2 (Actual vs Budget)
This format contains the Budget of different fields per region, all over the world and the actual amount of money spent on assets and liabilities. Format 2 contains important fields such as :-

- Gaming Machine Revenue
- Direct NAFI Reimbursement Gaming NAFI
- Net Revenue
- Operating Expenses
- Distributions
- Net Income

Also, you can find 3 tables of this format in one single data entry cycle. These tables have details of the same major field, but for 3 different major regions which are _Europe_, _Korea_ and _Japan_.

_One can perform analysis on trends in the budget planned by the government and the actual cash flow._

#### Format-3 (Analysis per Military Type)
Format-3 is similar to Format-2 in terms of the important data fields, since both have same fields. But the main difference between these 2 is that, Format-2 focuses on comparison  between Actual Cash FLow and the Budget that was set up, but Format-3 focuses mainly on how much investment is made on which military branch, from:-

- Army
- Navy
- Marines

_One can analyze the trends in usage of cash per military branch, and by mixing it with Format-2, one can make a hypothesis that which specific military body is using excess amount of government funds and in which region._

#### Format-4 (Revenue Generation per Branch)
This format suggests that how much revenue was generated by which specific branch of military per month. An analysis on branches has been made that which are the Top 10 branches generating maximum revenue. A time-series analysis has also been performed using this format, predicting revenue generation trends in upcoming years.

### Marine Revenue
Marine Revenue basically has 2 formats, one in which an average summary is maintained and another one contains detailed revenue generations per month and per base. 

- For the Format-1, a pattern was monitored that this format contains total revenue generation of the current year along with previous 4 years. This PDF contains data collection from the year 2020 to 2024, and based on the justified data collections trend, we have total revenue generation figures from the year 2016 up to the year 2024 for all the Marine Bases.
- For Format-2, it is observed that there there was data collection every month for every Marine Base but sometimes no data was uploaded, hence leaving negligible revenue figures. It could also be observed that the year total was measured in the end of September Month.

### Navy Revenue
Originally, there are 2 files for Navy Revenue, but they are continuation of each other. And both of these file have the same pattern as Marine Revenue with similar attributes.

### Asset Reports
This is one of the major file for Slot Machine installations and their counts. There 5 files of Asset Reports and they are provided on the basis of the year they represent. Moreover, all of these have the same structure, and they have 4 formats in total.

#### Format-1
This format provides information on how many machines are present and of which type are they present, at each and every base. These bases are also divided into 3 regions, which are _Europe_, _Korea_ and _Japan_.

#### Format-2
This format for mapping which machine was installed by which manufacturer. This data is present for each and every base, but it does not mean that the data shown in this format shows implementation on new machines. This format only justifies, haw many machines are present.

#### Format-3
This format shows the installation and effective dates of the machines, and also provides the serial numbers of the slot machines. This format also shows that machines listed in here are in storage spaces. These machines might have been moved from main playable area to the storage area.

#### Format-4
This format displays the details of gambling machines that have been installed at the military bases, along with their serial numbers, manufacturers, age, acquired dates and description.

#### Redacted Data
For the cleaning purpose, pages with redacted data were omitted, since at that time these pages did not seemed to have any importance. But these pages display the machine malfunction details. The only redacted part contains emails of the military officials, making their complaints to fix the gambling machines. From this data one can find different patterns on frequency of machine malfunctions.

### Revenue Comparison
This is the file with most messy data. Around 52% of this file contains redacted data and that data contains the populations of military officials on the base. It also justifies that Civilians could come on the military bases and gamble, but the figure is classified.


## Extracted Data
The extracted data is stored in the folder named data, and the structure of the database is as follow:-
- data
    - Financial Statements
        - Financial Statements Format-1.csv
        - Financial Statements Format-2 Europe.csv
        - Financial Statements Format-2 Korea.csv
        - Financial Statements Format-2 Japan.csv
        - Financial Statements Format-3 Europe.csv
        - Financial Statements Format-3 Korea.csv
        - Financial Statements Format-3 Japan.csv
        - Financial Statements Format-4.csv
    - Navy Revenue
        - Navy Revenue Report FY16-FY24-1 Format 1.csv
        - Navy Revenue Report FY20-FY24-1 Format 2.csv
    - Marine Revenue
        - Marine Revenue FY20-FY24 Format 1.csv
        - Marine Revenue FY20-FY24 Format 2.csv
    - District Revenue
        - District Revenue Format 2_2.csv
        - District Revenue Format 2_3.csv
        - District Revenue Format 3.csv
    - Asset Reports
        - Asset Report FY20-FY24 Format 1.csv
        - Asset Report FY20-FY24 Format 2.csv
        - Asset Report FY20-FY24 Format 4.csv
    - bases.json

### Financial Statements
This folder contains all the formatted data in CSVs for the military financial statements. This folder contains all 4 formats of the financial statements wherein format 2 and 3 are further subdivided on the basis of their region.

### Navy Revenue and Marine Revenue
There are 2 CSV files one is format 1 and another is the format 2. Format 1 consists of the overall cumulative revenue generation data spread across from the year 2016 to 2024, for all the bases. And the format 2 is for all the detailed analysis. This same goes for Marine Revenue.

### District Revenue
District Revenue is divided into 3 different formats, from which format 2 and 3 have been included in the data folder on the repo. Format-1 was much messy and the time did not allow to clean it properly. Furthermore, Format-2 was much massive, hence it had to be divided into 2 parts for cleaning.

### Asset Reports
All the 4 formats of Asset Reports have been cleaned and converted into clean CSVs for further processing.

### bases.json
This JSON file has been retrieved from the github repo (https://gist.github.com/julesblm/0f8578f9307f60df1cbe216d3d31d985) and data from this file was then mapped with all the relevant CSVs that contained bases names. bases.json consists of latitude and longitude details of all the foreign US Military bases with description.
